2-Corpus-Linguistics.md, before:

# Layout

+ Searching text for keywords
+ Distribution of terms
+ Correlation
+ Word frequencies
+ Conditional frequencies
+ Statistically significant collocations
+ Distinguishing or Important words and phrases (Wordls!)
    + tf-idf
+ POS-tagged words and phrases
+ Lemmatized words and phrases
    + stemmers
+ Dictionary-based annotations.

+ divergences
    + kl

+ Sources
    + US senate press releases
        + e.g. [http://www.reid.senate.gov/press_releases](http://www.reid.senate.gov/press_releases)
    + Tumblr
    + Literature

# Week 2 - Corpus Linguistics

Intro stuff

For this notebook we will be using the following packages

```python
#All these packages need to be installed from pip
import requests #for http requests
import nltk #the Natural Language Toolkit
import sklearn #scikit-learn
import pandas #gives us DataFrames
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt #For graphics
import wordcloud #Makes wordclouds

#This 'magic' command makes the plots work better
#in the notebook, don't use it outside of a notebook
%matplotlib inline

import json #For API responses
import urllib.parse #For joining urls
```
# Getting our corpuses

To get started we will need some targets, lets start by downloading one of the corpuses from `nltk`. Lets take a look at how that works.

First we can get a list of works available from the Gutenburg corpus, with the [corpus module](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.corpus.html).

```python
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.fileids())
print(len(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.fileids()))
```

We can also look at the individual works

```python
nltk.corpus.gutenberg.raw('shakespeare-macbeth.txt')[:1000]
```

All the listed works have been nicely marked up and classified for us so we can do much better than just looking at raw text.

```python
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.sents('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
```

If we want to do some analysis we can start by simply counting the number of times each word occurs.

```python
def wordCounter(wordLst):
    wordCounts = {}
    for word in wordLst:
        #We usually need to normalize the case
        wLower = word.lower()
        if wLower in wordCounts:
            wordCounts[wLower] += 1
        else:
            wordCounts[wLower] = 1
    #convert to DataFrame
    countsForFrame = {'word' : [], 'count' : []}
    for w, c in wordCounts.items():
        countsForFrame['word'].append(w)
        countsForFrame['count'].append(c)
    return pandas.DataFrame(countsForFrame)

countedWords = wordCounter(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
countedWords[:10]
```

Notice how `wordCounter()` is not a very complicated function. That is because the hard parts have already been done by `nltk`. If we were using unprocessed text we would have to tokenize and determine what to do with the non-word characters.

Lets plot our counts and see what it looks like.

First we need to sort the words by count.

```python
#Doing this in place as we don't need the unsorted DataFrame
countedWords.sort_values('count', ascending=False, inplace=True)
countedWords[:10]
```

```python
plt.plot(range(len(countedWords)), countedWords['count'])
plt.show()
```

This shows the likelihood of a word occurring is inversely proportional to its rank, this effect is called [Zipf's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zipf%27s_law).

What does the distribution of word lengths look like?

There are many other properties of words we can look at. First lets look at concordance.

To do this we need to load the text into a `ConcordanceIndex`
```python
macbethIndex = nltk.text.ConcordanceIndex(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
```

Then we can get all the words that cooccur with a word, lets look at `'macbeth'`.

```python
macbethIndex.print_concordance('macbeth')
```

weird, `'macbeth'` doesn't occur anywhere in the the text. What happened?

`ConcordanceIndex` is case sensitive, lets try looking for `'Macbeth'`

```python
macbethIndex.print_concordance('Macbeth')
```

That's a lot better

what about something a lot less frequent

```python
print(countedWords[countedWords['word'] == 'Donalbaine'])
macbethIndex.print_concordance('Donalbaine')
```

# Getting press releases

First we need to understand the GitHub API

requests are made to `'https://api.github.com/'` and responses are in JSON, similar to Tumblr's API.

We will get the information on [github.com/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases](https://github.com/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases) as it contains a nice set documents.

```
r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases')
senateReleasesData = json.loads(r.text)
print(senateReleasesData.keys())
print(senateReleasesData['description'])
```

What we are interested in is the `'contents_url'`

```python
print(senateReleasesData['contents_url'])
```

We can use this to get any, or all of the files from the repo

```python
r= requests.get('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse')
whitehouseLinks = json.loads(r.text)
whitehouseLinks[0]
```

Now we have a list of information about Whitehouse press releases. Lets look at one of them.

```python
r = requests.get(whitehouseLinks[0]['download_url'])
whitehouseRelease = r.text
print(whitehouseRelease[:1000])
len(whitehouseRelease)
```

Now we have a blob of text we first need to tokenize it.

```python
whTokens = nltk.word_tokenize(whitehouseRelease)
whTokens[:10]
```

`whTokens` is a list of 'words', it's better than `.split(' ')`,  but it is not perfect. There are many different ways to tokenize a string and the one we used here is called the [Penn Treebank tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.treebank). This tokenizer isn't aware of sentences and is a basically a complicated regex that's run over the string.

If we want to find sentences we can use something like `nltk.sent_tokenize()` which implements the [Punkt Sentence tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#nltk.tokenize.punkt.PunktSentenceTokenizer), a machine learning based algorithm that works well for many European languages.

We could also use the [Stanford tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.stanford) or use our own regex with [`RegexpTokenizer()`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.regexp). Picking the correct tokenizer is important as the tokens form the base of our analysis.

For now though the Penn Treebank tokenizer is fine.

To use the list of tokens in `nltk` we can convert it into a `Text`.

```python
whText = nltk.Text(whTokens)
```

*Note*, The `Text` class is for doing exploratory and fast analysis. It provides an easy interface to many of the operations we want to do, but it does not allow us much control. When you are doing a full analysis you should be using the module for that task instead of the method `Text` provides, e.g. use  [`collocations` Module](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#module-nltk.collocations) instead of `.collocations()`.

Now that we got this loaded lets, look at few things

We can find words that tend to occur together

```python
whText.collocations()
```

Or we can pick a word (or words) and find what words tend to occur around it

```python
whText.common_contexts(['stem'])
```

We can also just count the number of times the word occurs

```python
whText.count('stem')
```

Or plot each time it occurs

```python
whText.dispersion_plot(['stem', 'cell', 'federal' ,'Lila', 'Barber', 'Whitehouse'])
```

If we want to do an analysis of all the Whitehouse press releases we will first need to obtain them. By looking at the API we can see the the URL we want is [https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse](https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse), so we can create a function to scrape the individual files


```python
def getGithubFiles(target, maxFiles = 100):
    #We are setting a max so our examples don't take too long to run
    #For converting to a DataFrame
    releasesDict = {
        'name' : [], #The name of the file
        'text' : [], #The text of the file, watch out for binary files
        'path' : [], #The path in the git repo to the file
        'html_url' : [], #The url to see the file on Github
        'download_url' : [], #The url to download the file
    }

    #Get the directory information from Github
    r = requests.get(target)
    filesLst = json.loads(r.text)

    for fileDict in filesLst[:maxFiles]:
        #These are provided by the directory
        releasesDict['name'].append(fileDict['name'])
        releasesDict['path'].append(fileDict['path'])
        releasesDict['html_url'].append(fileDict['html_url'])
        releasesDict['download_url'].append(fileDict['download_url'])

        #We need to download the text though
        text = requests.get(fileDict['download_url']).text
        releasesDict['text'].append(text)

    return pandas.DataFrame(releasesDict)

whReleases = getGithubFiles('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse', maxFiles = 10)
whReleases[:5]
```

Now we have all the texts in a DataFrame we can look at a few things.

First lets tokenize the texts with the same tokenizer as we used before, we will just save the tokens as a list for now, no need to convert to `Text`s.

```python
whReleases['tokenized_text'] = whReleases['text'].apply(lambda x: nltk.word_tokenize(x))
```

Now lets see how long each of the press releases is

```python
whReleases['word_counts'] = whReleases['tokenized_text'].apply(lambda x: len(x))
whReleases['word_counts']
```

As we want to start comparing the different releases we need to do a bit of normalizing. We first will make all the words lower case, drop the non-word tokens, then we can stem them and finally remove some stop words.

To do this we will define a function to work over the tokenized lists, then use another apply to add the normalized tokens to a new column.

```python
stopwords = ["the","it","she","he"]

def normlizeTokens(tokenLst, stopwordLst = stopwords):
    #We can use a generator here as we just need to iterate over it

    #Lowering the case and removing non-words
    workingIter = (w.lower() for w in tokenLst if w.isalpha())

    #The stemmer needs to be initialized before bing run
    porter = nltk.stem.porter.PorterStemmer()

    #Now we can use it
    workingIter = (porter.stem(w) for w in workingIter)

    #We will return a list with the stopwords removed
    return [w for w in workingIter if w not in stopwordLst]

whReleases['normalized_tokens'] = whReleases['tokenized_text'].apply(lambda x: normlizeTokens(x))

whReleases['normalized_tokens_count'] = whReleases['normalized_tokens'].apply(lambda x: len(x))

whReleases
```

The stemmer we use here is called the [Porter Stemmer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.stem.html#module-nltk.stem.porter), there are many others, including another good one by the same person (Martin Porter) called the [Snowball Stemmer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.stem.html#module-nltk.stem.snowball).

Now that it is cleaned we start analyzing the dataset. We can start by finding frequency disruptions for the dataset. Lets start looking at all the press releases together. The[`ConditionalFreqDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ConditionalProbDist) class reads in a iterable of tuples, the first element is the condition and the second the word, for now we will use word lengths as the conditions, but tags or clusters would provide more useful results.

```python
#.sum() adds together the lists from each row into a single list
whcfdist = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist(((len(w), w) for w in whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum()))

#print the number of conditions
print(whcfdist.N())
```

From this we can lookup the distributions of different word lengths

```python
whcfdist[3].plot()
```

We can also create a [`ConditionalProbDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ConditionalProbDist) from the `ConditionalFreqDist`, to do this though we need a model for the probability distribution. A simple model is [`ELEProbDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ELEProbDist) which gives the expected likelihood estimate.

```python
whcpdist = nltk.ConditionalProbDist(whcfdist, nltk.ELEProbDist)

#print the most common 2 letter word
print(whcpdist[2].max())

#And its probability
print(whcpdist[2].prob(whcpdist[2].max()))
```

Word lengths are a good start but there are many more Important features we care about. To start with we will be classifying words with their part of speech (POS), using the [`nltk.pos_tag()`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tag.html#nltk.tag.pos_tag).

```python
whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'] = [nltk.pos_tag(t) for t in whReleases['normalized_tokens']]
```

This gives us a new column with the part of speech as a short initialism and the word in a tuple, exactly how the `nltk.ConditionalFreqDist()` function wants them. We can now make another conditional frequency distribution.

```python
whcfdist_WordtoPOS = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist(whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'].sum())
list(whcfdist_WordtoPOS.items())[:10]
```

This gives the frequency of each word being each part of speech, which is usually quite boring.

```python
whcfdist_WordtoPOS['administr'].plot()
```

What we want is the the other direction, the frequency of each part of speech for each word.

```python
whcfdist_POStoWord = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist((p, w) for w, p in whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'].sum())
whcfdist_POStoWord['JJS']
```

```python
whcfdist_POStoWord['VB'].plot()
```

We can then do a similar analysis of the probabilities

```python
whcpdist_POStoWord = nltk.ConditionalProbDist(whcfdist_POStoWord, nltk.ELEProbDist)

#print the most common noun
print(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].max())

#And its probability
print(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].prob(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].max()))
```

```python
wc = wordcloud.WordCloud(background_color="white", max_words=500, width= 1000, height = 1000, mode ='RGBA', scale=.5).generate(' '.join(whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum()))
plt.imshow(wc)
plt.axis("off")
plt.savefig("whitehouse_word_cloud.pdf", format = 'pdf')
```

We also might want to find significant bigrams and trigrams. To do this we will use the [`nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html?highlight=bigramcollocationfinder#nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder) class, which can be given raw lists of strings with the `from_words()` method. By default it only looks at continuous bigrams but there is an option (`window_size`) to allow skip-gram.

```python
whBigrams = nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder.from_words(whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum())
```

To compare the bigrams we need to tell nltk what our score function is, for now we will just look at the raw counts.


```python
def bigramScoringfunction(count, wordsTuple, total):
    return count

print(whBigrams.nbest(bigramScoringfunction, 10))
```

Commit message:

Adding some stuff for Shilin to look at

2-Corpus-Linguistics.md, after:

# Layout

+ Searching text for keywords
+ Distribution of terms
+ Correlation
+ Word frequencies
+ Conditional frequencies
+ Statistically significant collocations
+ Distinguishing or Important words and phrases (Wordls!)
    + tf-idf
+ POS-tagged words and phrases
+ Lemmatized words and phrases
    + stemmers
+ Dictionary-based annotations.

+ divergences
    + kl

+ Sources
    + US senate press releases
        + e.g. [http://www.reid.senate.gov/press_releases](http://www.reid.senate.gov/press_releases)
    + Tumblr
    + Literature

# Week 2 - Corpus Linguistics

Intro stuff

For this notebook we will be using the following packages

```python
#All these packages need to be installed from pip
import requests #for http requests
import nltk #the Natural Language Toolkit
import sklearn #scikit-learn
import pandas #gives us DataFrames
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt #For graphics
import wordcloud #Makes word clouds

#This 'magic' command makes the plots work better
#in the notebook, don't use it outside of a notebook
%matplotlib inline

import json #For API responses
import urllib.parse #For joining urls
```
# Getting our corpuses

To get started we will need some targets, lets start by downloading one of the corpuses from `nltk`. Lets take a look at how that works.

First we can get a list of works available from the Gutenburg corpus, with the [corpus module](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.corpus.html).

```python
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.fileids())
print(len(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.fileids()))
```

We can also look at the individual works

```python
nltk.corpus.gutenberg.raw('shakespeare-macbeth.txt')[:1000]
```

All the listed works have been nicely marked up and classified for us so we can do much better than just looking at raw text.

```python
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
print(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.sents('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
```

If we want to do some analysis we can start by simply counting the number of times each word occurs.

```python
def wordCounter(wordLst):
    wordCounts = {}
    for word in wordLst:
        #We usually need to normalize the case
        wLower = word.lower()
        if wLower in wordCounts:
            wordCounts[wLower] += 1
        else:
            wordCounts[wLower] = 1
    #convert to DataFrame
    countsForFrame = {'word' : [], 'count' : []}
    for w, c in wordCounts.items():
        countsForFrame['word'].append(w)
        countsForFrame['count'].append(c)
    return pandas.DataFrame(countsForFrame)

countedWords = wordCounter(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
countedWords[:10]
```

Notice how `wordCounter()` is not a very complicated function. That is because the hard parts have already been done by `nltk`. If we were using unprocessed text we would have to tokenize and determine what to do with the non-word characters.

Lets plot our counts and see what it looks like.

First we need to sort the words by count.

```python
#Doing this in place as we don't need the unsorted DataFrame
countedWords.sort_values('count', ascending=False, inplace=True)
countedWords[:10]
```

```python
plt.plot(range(len(countedWords)), countedWords['count'])
plt.show()
```

This shows the likelihood of a word occurring is inversely proportional to its rank, this effect is called [Zipf's Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zipf%27s_law).

What does the distribution of word lengths look like?

There are many other properties of words we can look at. First lets look at concordance.

To do this we need to load the text into a `ConcordanceIndex`
```python
macbethIndex = nltk.text.ConcordanceIndex(nltk.corpus.gutenberg.words('shakespeare-macbeth.txt'))
```

Then we can get all the words that cooccur with a word, lets look at `'macbeth'`.

```python
macbethIndex.print_concordance('macbeth')
```

weird, `'macbeth'` doesn't occur anywhere in the the text. What happened?

`ConcordanceIndex` is case sensitive, lets try looking for `'Macbeth'`

```python
macbethIndex.print_concordance('Macbeth')
```

That's a lot better

what about something a lot less frequent

```python
print(countedWords[countedWords['word'] == 'Donalbaine'])
macbethIndex.print_concordance('Donalbaine')
```

# Getting press releases

First we need to understand the GitHub API

requests are made to `'https://api.github.com/'` and responses are in JSON, similar to Tumblr's API.

We will get the information on [github.com/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases](https://github.com/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases) as it contains a nice set documents.

```
r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases')
senateReleasesData = json.loads(r.text)
print(senateReleasesData.keys())
print(senateReleasesData['description'])
```

What we are interested in is the `'contents_url'`

```python
print(senateReleasesData['contents_url'])
```

We can use this to get any, or all of the files from the repo

```python
r= requests.get('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse')
whitehouseLinks = json.loads(r.text)
whitehouseLinks[0]
```

Now we have a list of information about Whitehouse press releases. Lets look at one of them.

```python
r = requests.get(whitehouseLinks[0]['download_url'])
whitehouseRelease = r.text
print(whitehouseRelease[:1000])
len(whitehouseRelease)
```

Now we have a blob of text we first need to tokenize it.

```python
whTokens = nltk.word_tokenize(whitehouseRelease)
whTokens[:10]
```

`whTokens` is a list of 'words', it's better than `.split(' ')`,  but it is not perfect. There are many different ways to tokenize a string and the one we used here is called the [Penn Treebank tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.treebank). This tokenizer isn't aware of sentences and is a basically a complicated regex that's run over the string.

If we want to find sentences we can use something like `nltk.sent_tokenize()` which implements the [Punkt Sentence tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#nltk.tokenize.punkt.PunktSentenceTokenizer), a machine learning based algorithm that works well for many European languages.

We could also use the [Stanford tokenizer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.stanford) or use our own regex with [`RegexpTokenizer()`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tokenize.html#module-nltk.tokenize.regexp). Picking the correct tokenizer is important as the tokens form the base of our analysis.

For now though the Penn Treebank tokenizer is fine.

To use the list of tokens in `nltk` we can convert it into a `Text`.

```python
whText = nltk.Text(whTokens)
```

*Note*, The `Text` class is for doing exploratory and fast analysis. It provides an easy interface to many of the operations we want to do, but it does not allow us much control. When you are doing a full analysis you should be using the module for that task instead of the method `Text` provides, e.g. use  [`collocations` Module](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#module-nltk.collocations) instead of `.collocations()`.

Now that we got this loaded lets, look at few things

We can find words that tend to occur together

```python
whText.collocations()
```

Or we can pick a word (or words) and find what words tend to occur around it

```python
whText.common_contexts(['stem'])
```

We can also just count the number of times the word occurs

```python
whText.count('stem')
```

Or plot each time it occurs

```python
whText.dispersion_plot(['stem', 'cell', 'federal' ,'Lila', 'Barber', 'Whitehouse'])
```

If we want to do an analysis of all the Whitehouse press releases we will first need to obtain them. By looking at the API we can see the the URL we want is [https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse](https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse), so we can create a function to scrape the individual files


```python
def getGithubFiles(target, maxFiles = 100):
    #We are setting a max so our examples don't take too long to run
    #For converting to a DataFrame
    releasesDict = {
        'name' : [], #The name of the file
        'text' : [], #The text of the file, watch out for binary files
        'path' : [], #The path in the git repo to the file
        'html_url' : [], #The url to see the file on Github
        'download_url' : [], #The url to download the file
    }

    #Get the directory information from Github
    r = requests.get(target)
    filesLst = json.loads(r.text)

    for fileDict in filesLst[:maxFiles]:
        #These are provided by the directory
        releasesDict['name'].append(fileDict['name'])
        releasesDict['path'].append(fileDict['path'])
        releasesDict['html_url'].append(fileDict['html_url'])
        releasesDict['download_url'].append(fileDict['download_url'])

        #We need to download the text though
        text = requests.get(fileDict['download_url']).text
        releasesDict['text'].append(text)

    return pandas.DataFrame(releasesDict)

whReleases = getGithubFiles('https://api.github.com/repos/lintool/GrimmerSenatePressReleases/contents/raw/Whitehouse', maxFiles = 10)
whReleases[:5]
```

Now we have all the texts in a DataFrame we can look at a few things.

First lets tokenize the texts with the same tokenizer as we used before, we will just save the tokens as a list for now, no need to convert to `Text`s.

```python
whReleases['tokenized_text'] = whReleases['text'].apply(lambda x: nltk.word_tokenize(x))
```

Now lets see how long each of the press releases is

```python
whReleases['word_counts'] = whReleases['tokenized_text'].apply(lambda x: len(x))
whReleases['word_counts']
```

As we want to start comparing the different releases we need to do a bit of normalizing. We first will make all the words lower case, drop the non-word tokens, then we can stem them and finally remove some stop words.

To do this we will define a function to work over the tokenized lists, then use another apply to add the normalized tokens to a new column.

```python
stopwords = ["the","it","she","he"]

def normlizeTokens(tokenLst, stopwordLst = stopwords):
    #We can use a generator here as we just need to iterate over it

    #Lowering the case and removing non-words
    workingIter = (w.lower() for w in tokenLst if w.isalpha())

    #The stemmer needs to be initialized before bing run
    porter = nltk.stem.porter.PorterStemmer()

    #Now we can use it
    workingIter = (porter.stem(w) for w in workingIter)

    #We will return a list with the stopwords removed
    return [w for w in workingIter if w not in stopwordLst]

whReleases['normalized_tokens'] = whReleases['tokenized_text'].apply(lambda x: normlizeTokens(x))

whReleases['normalized_tokens_count'] = whReleases['normalized_tokens'].apply(lambda x: len(x))

whReleases
```

The stemmer we use here is called the [Porter Stemmer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.stem.html#module-nltk.stem.porter), there are many others, including another good one by the same person (Martin Porter) called the [Snowball Stemmer](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.stem.html#module-nltk.stem.snowball).

Now that it is cleaned we start analyzing the dataset. We can start by finding frequency disruptions for the dataset. Lets start looking at all the press releases together. The[`ConditionalFreqDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ConditionalProbDist) class reads in a iterable of tuples, the first element is the condition and the second the word, for now we will use word lengths as the conditions, but tags or clusters would provide more useful results.

```python
#.sum() adds together the lists from each row into a single list
whcfdist = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist(((len(w), w) for w in whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum()))

#print the number of conditions
print(whcfdist.N())
```

From this we can lookup the distributions of different word lengths

```python
whcfdist[3].plot()
```

We can also create a [`ConditionalProbDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ConditionalProbDist) from the `ConditionalFreqDist`, to do this though we need a model for the probability distribution. A simple model is [`ELEProbDist`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html#nltk.probability.ELEProbDist) which gives the expected likelihood estimate.

```python
whcpdist = nltk.ConditionalProbDist(whcfdist, nltk.ELEProbDist)

#print the most common 2 letter word
print(whcpdist[2].max())

#And its probability
print(whcpdist[2].prob(whcpdist[2].max()))
```

Word lengths are a good start but there are many more Important features we care about. To start with we will be classifying words with their part of speech (POS), using the [`nltk.pos_tag()`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.tag.html#nltk.tag.pos_tag).

```python
whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'] = [nltk.pos_tag(t) for t in whReleases['normalized_tokens']]
```

This gives us a new column with the part of speech as a short initialism and the word in a tuple, exactly how the `nltk.ConditionalFreqDist()` function wants them. We can now make another conditional frequency distribution.

```python
whcfdist_WordtoPOS = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist(whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'].sum())
list(whcfdist_WordtoPOS.items())[:10]
```

This gives the frequency of each word being each part of speech, which is usually quite boring.

```python
whcfdist_WordtoPOS['administr'].plot()
```

What we want is the the other direction, the frequency of each part of speech for each word.

```python
whcfdist_POStoWord = nltk.ConditionalFreqDist((p, w) for w, p in whReleases['normalized_tokens_POS'].sum())
```
We can now get all of the superlative adjectives
```python
whcfdist_POStoWord['JJS']
```

Or look at the most common nouns

```python
whcfdist_POStoWord['NN'].most_common(5)
```

Or plot the base form verbs against their number of occurrences

```python
whcfdist_POStoWord['VB'].plot()
```

We can then do a similar analysis of the probabilities

```python
whcpdist_POStoWord = nltk.ConditionalProbDist(whcfdist_POStoWord, nltk.ELEProbDist)

#print the most common nouns
print(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].max())

#And its probability
print(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].prob(whcpdist_POStoWord['NN'].max()))
```

```python
wc = wordcloud.WordCloud(background_color="white", max_words=500, width= 1000, height = 1000, mode ='RGBA', scale=.5).generate(' '.join(whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum()))
plt.imshow(wc)
plt.axis("off")
plt.savefig("whitehouse_word_cloud.pdf", format = 'pdf')
```

We also might want to find significant bigrams and trigrams. To do this we will use the [`nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder`](http://www.nltk.org/api/nltk.html?highlight=bigramcollocationfinder#nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder) class, which can be given raw lists of strings with the `from_words()` method. By default it only looks at continuous bigrams but there is an option (`window_size`) to allow skip-gram.

```python
whBigrams = nltk.collocations.BigramCollocationFinder.from_words(whReleases['normalized_tokens'].sum())
```

To compare the bigrams we need to tell nltk what our score function is, for now we will just look at the raw counts.


```python
def bigramScoring(count, wordsTuple, total):
    return count

print(whBigrams.nbest(bigramScoring, 10))
```

One note about how `BigramCollocationFinder` works, it doesn't use the strings internally.

```python
def bigramPrinting(count, wordsTuple, total):
    print("The first word is:  {}\nThe second word is: {}".format(*wordsTuple))
    #Returns None so all the tuples are considered to have the same rank

print(whBigrams.nbest(bigramPrinting, 10))
```

The words are each given numeric IDs and a dictionary
